<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2019 Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.
 -->

# FSFE Code of Conduct

The CoC in a nutshell: The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) and its
community aim to offer a friendly and peaceful environment for every participant
at the FSFE's events, online and offline. All participants at any FSFE event are
expected to behave excellently towards each other. Misbehaviour can lead to
exclusion from our events and/or our technical infrastructure. If you have been
in a situation in which the spirit of the Code of Conduct was breached, please
be in touch with our central CARE team.

Free Software is about freedom and so is our community. We like to collaborate
and work together with respect to different opinions, skills and interests. We
as a welcoming community encourage all participants to be excellent to each
other.

This Code of Conduct applies at all physical events hosted by the FSFE as well
as to our online infrastructure. The latter includes but is not limited to our
mailing lists, wikis, social media, groups, forums and any other means of
digital communication that are hosted and/or moderated by the FSFE. The Code of
Conduct applies equally to all participants including, but not limited to,
speakers, volunteers, staffers, exhibitors, etc. Code of Conduct

## Code of Conduct

We invite and encourage everybody to express their opinions on relevant topics.
All participants should at all times feel at ease to do so without fearing any
form of attack, reprisal or harassment. We ask everybody to be respectful and
considerate towards each other, especially when attempting to provide
constructive criticism.

To foster tolerance, respect and hospitality in our community, we agree not to
engage in discriminatory, disparaging or offensive speech or actions, including
as to (but not limited to) gender, sexuality, race, nationality, religion or
profession. We are a community of many different nationalities and backgrounds,
and we cherish our strength in diversity.

## Enforcement

If you have experienced or become aware of behaviour contrary to the principles
enshrined in this Code of Conduct, please bring such incidents to the attention
of your respective local or our central CARE team (CARE = CoC Active Response
Ensurers) as soon as possible. You will find local CARE team contact information
depending on the individual event.

Please feel free to share the Code of Conduct with participants in discussions,
both online and offline, to ensure a respectful and welcoming environment. The
Free Software Foundation Europe reserves the right to deny entrance and/or eject
from an event or any of its infrastructure (e.g. wiki, mailing lists, etc) any
individual found to be engaging in misconduct contrary to the principles
highlighted above. Central CARE Team

The central CARE team may be reached by e-mail at care at fsfe dot org. The CARE
team members are listed below, and you are welcome to contact them individually
too. We recommend to communicate via encrypted email. The easiest way to do so
is if you write one of the team-members indivually.
